---
title: HTML5 Website Security Scanning with SOFTSKY
author: Arsen A. Gutsal
layout: text-and-images
---

**HTML5 Website Security Scanning with SOFTSKY**
=================================================

![](/media/vulnerability-scanner/html5-website-security.md-images/media/image01.jpg)

*Scan HTML5 websites with SOFTSKY Web Vulnerability Scanner V9*

1999 marked the momentous introduction of HTML 4.01. Fast forward 14
years, and a lot has certainly changed since then.

We are now witnessing a very wide — albeit lively debated — adoption of
HTML5 with the community split between those extremely excited about the
possibilities and new UX frontiers, and the total naysayers. As always,
the reality is somewhere in between.

**What’s Different in HTML5**
-----------------------------

HTML5 brings about new functions that make the web experience altogether
more dynamic and interactive. The core aim behind HTML5 is to bring
forward major improvements for the latest multimedia, reducing reliance
on third-party plugins such as Flash, Shockwave and Silverlight.

HTML5 is supported by the latest browsers and mobile devices. [Intended
to subsume not only HTML4, but also XHTML 1 and DOM Level 2
HTML](http://www.w3.org/TR/2011/WD-html5-diff-20110405/), HTML5
implements a plethora of new syntactic features such as &lt;video&gt;,
&lt;audio&gt; and &lt;canvas&gt; elements as well as MathML and SVG
elements. These new elements represent a huge leap forward giving HTML5
developers easy access to functionality without the need to learn how to
interface with, and embed other components into, the web site.

In addition, HTML5 introduces some features that make the life of a web
designer much easier. For example, in HTML4, we relied on JavaScript for
client side input validation. The source of a standard form would look
like this:

#### ***HTML4 Example:***

First we need the JavaScript code for Validation:

      function validateForm(){
      var x=document.forms["myForm"]["email"].value;
      var atpos=x.indexOf("@");
      var dotpos=x.lastIndexOf(".");
      if (atpos&lt;1 || dotpos&lt;atpos+2 || dotpos+2&gt;=x.length){
            alert("Not a valid e-mail address");
	          return false;
		  }
      }

Then we need the form:

     <form name="myForm" action="demo\_form.asp" onsubmit="return
     validateForm();" method="post">
     Email: <input type="text" name="email">
     <input type="submit" value="Submit">
     </form>

#### ***HTML5 example:***

     <form action="demo\_form.asp" autocomplete="on">
     <input type="email" name="email" required placeholder="Enter a valid email address">
     <input type="submit">
     </form>

And the results can be seen below:

The same can be done on other types of fields, such as telephone numbers
and URLs, simplifying client-side input validation in HTML5. The above
HTML5 code includes input validation, which is by far more secure than
the HTML4 version. In HTML4 everyone had to implement their own way of
performing input validation.

On the other hand though, although HTML5 does try to be inherently more
secure, it does leave dangerous and exploitable openings. Developers
need to be aware that **implementing HTML5 does not guarantee immunity
from web vulnerabilities**.

**New Mark Up Language, Same Old Web Vulnerabilities**
------------------------------------------------------

A new version or iteration of something has the tendency of providing us
with a false sense of security. Same with HTML5. We seem to have
expected HTML5 to be, by default, more secure from web vulnerabilities
than its predecessor; almost immune.

This, of course, is unfortunately not the case. The motley crew of web
vulnerabilities are still around. Their detection and remediation needs
to form part of any web application development process.

The dangers lay within the superficial capabilities of current web
vulnerability scanners in crawling HTML5 websites and web applications.
Their limited understanding of the plenitude of new tags, attributes and
events possible within dynamic websites means that only superficial
crawling can be undertaken, leaving vulnerabilities in applications
undetected.

**An Example of an Inherent HTML5 Vulnerability**
-------------------------------------------------

The [HTML5 Geolocation
API](http://www.w3schools.com/html/html5_geolocation.asp) is used by
supported browsers to locate a user’s position; allowing a website to
customize the user’s experience based on their geographic position. This
feature is common in various social sites for example, where users are
matched based on their current geographical proximity.

This however adds another layer of complexity to HTML5 security.

What if a hacker wanted to know your location?

Using [XSS
vulnerabilities](http://www.softsky.com.ua/websitesecurity/xss/) (which is
not an HTML5-specific web vulnerability), a hacker is now able to
request a user’s location from the browser. Most users would accept such
a request when coming from a trusted site, allowing the attacker to
know, with rather good accuracy, the location of the user.

And once the ALLOW (or Share Location) button is pressed, unless the
user manually disables tracking for the site, the browser will be happy
to comply with the request and continue exposing the user’s location in
the future. This technique can be used to track employees’ activity in
the office, allowing the attacker to get a good understanding of the
topology of the company’s network. How’s that for giving hackers an
extra step up!

If you are using one of the latest browsers, you can try this for
yourself using the following code:

	 <script>
	 var x=document.getElementById("demo");
	 function getLocation(){
	 if (navigator.geolocation){
	  navigator.geolocation.getCurrentPosition(showPosition);
	 }
	 else {
		x.innerHTML="Geolocation is not supported by this browser.";
	   }
	 }
	 
	 function showPosition(position){
	  x.innerHTML="Latitude: " + position.coords.latitude + "<br>Longitude: " + position.coords.longitude;
	 }
	 </script>

**So is HTML5 more dangerous than HTML4?**
------------------------------------------

Whilst HTML5 does come with some security enhancements, hackers have
much more accessible data that can be used to mount an attack.

A good example of this is HTML5 Local Storage, which updates the storage
allowance from 4KB, the maximum size of a cookie, to 5MB per domain.
That’s quite a lot of data; roughly 5 million characters. You can bet
that some web developers will choose to store sensitive data in their
domain’s local storage. This is a problem, because even though Local
Storage is inherently more secure than using cookies, by exploiting a
XSS vulnerability, a hacker can read data from the users’ local storage.

Over the last decade, the digital world has been reminded over and over
again of the importance of sanitizing data, and this will remain
relevant in the HTML5 era. When we opt to develop websites and web
applications in HTML5, we are choosing to use an unfinished
specification; and we are years away from it being ready. Having said
that, HTML5 is here now and it is here to stay.

Developers need to understand and be trained that when developing in
HTML5, they might be using specifications which are still in draft
stage, meaning these might also include yet-to-be discovered
vulnerabilities. Apart from that, different browsers tend to interpret
and implement the rendering of pages differently. This is especially
true for new technologies that are still being defined, as the browsers
implement hastily the new specifications. We also cannot assume that
everyone is using the latest browser updated with the latest set of
security fixes. Users who do not appreciate the importance of security
might choose to not update.

Therefore to answer the question, HTML4 has been around longer, tried
and tested in the last decade, and any issues inherent in the
specification are well known and documented. Hackers are busy
identifying new and exploitable vulnerabilities introduced in HTML5. And
developers are yet to understand how to completely secure it. To make
things worse, the old exploits are still relevant.

HTML5 provides little protection for web vulnerabilities such as
[XSS](http://www.softsky.com.ua/websitesecurity/xss/),
[CSRF](http://www.softsky.com.ua/what-are-csrf-attacks/) or [SQL
injection](http://www.softsky.com.ua/websitesecurity/sql-injection/)
amongst many others. Even though the specification may seem more secure,
most of the vulnerabilities available in the hackers’ arsenal continue
to work on HTML5-based sites as well.

**Education and prevention**
----------------------------

It’s an accepted fact, that not enough focus is placed on security when
training developers. And with the inherent dynamic nature of
programming, it is pretty hard to do. We cannot expect developers to
also be security experts.

We need a fall back plan. SOFTSKY is here to perform a leap towards
combating known vulnerabilities in HTML5. With the new crawler being
able to handle HTML5 with ease, SOFTSKY Web Vulnerability Scanner can
find vulnerabilities such as XSS, SQL, Click jacking and hundreds of
others.

At the same time our security researchers are totally committed to
researching new vulnerabilities and building the technology to combat
them.

When an interactive and dynamic user experience needs to be married with
security concerns and business continuity, combating web vulnerabilities
cannot be left to chance. Web vulnerability scanners that can crawl and
scan modern HTML5 and JavaScript-based web applications have a very
fundamental and important role to perform.

**Should HTML5 be left alone until it’s more secure?**
------------------------------------------------------

Is HTML5 simply too dangerous to take up? This question is plaguing the
security industry. When it comes to companies wanting to have the best
websites and deliver a top-notch user experience, this is not an option.

SOFTSKY believes in being forward when it comes to technology and
experiences and we want our clients to be able to push the envelope in
every way, whilst at the same time protecting their online assets.

For this reason [SOFTSKY Web Vulnerability
Scanner](http://www.softsky.com.ua/vulnerability-scanner/) fully supports
the crawling and scanning of HTML5 and JavaScript-based websites and web
applications.

If you are developing with HTML5, [scan your site today to ensure you
are secure against known
vulnerabilities](http://www.softsky.com.ua/vulnerability-scanner/download/).
