**Audit Your Website Security with SOFTSKY Web Vulnerability Scanner**
=======================================================================

With the uptake of cloud computing and the advancements in browser
technology, web applications and web services have become a core
component of many business processes, and therefore a lucrative target
for attackers. Over 70% of websites and web applications however,
contain vulnerabilities that could lead to the theft of sensitive
corporate data, credit cards, customer information and Personally
Identifiable Information (PII).

![](/media/vulnerability-scanner/index.md-images/media/image01.png) 

Over 70% of websites and web applications contain vulnerabilities that
could lead to data theft.

**Firewalls, SSL and Hardened Networks Are Futile Against Web Application Hacking**
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Cyber criminals are focusing their efforts on exploiting weaknesses in
web applications such as eCommerce platforms, blogs, login pages and
other dynamic content. Insecure web applications and web services not
only provide attackers access to backend databases but also allow them
to perform illegal activities using compromised sites.

Web application attacks are carried out over HTTP and HTTPS; the same
protocols that are used to deliver content to legitimate users. Yet web
application attacks, both on free open-source software, such as
WordPress, Drupal and Joomla!, as well as commercial or custom-built
applications, can have repercussions that are the same, or worse than
traditional network-based attacks.

**The Technology Leaders in Automated Web Application Security**
----------------------------------------------------------------

-   DeepScan Technology allows accurate crawling of AJAX-heavy
    client-side Single Page Applications (SPAs) that leverage complex
    technologies such as SOAP/WSDL, SOAP/WCF, REST/WADL, XML, JSON,
    Google Web Toolkit (GWT) and CRUD operations.

-   Industry’s most advanced and robust SQL Injection and Cross-site
    Scripting testing, including advanced detection of DOM-based
    Cross-site Scripting.

-   SoftSensor Technology allows accurate scanning further reducing the
    false positive rate, by combining black box scanning techniques
    with feedback from its sensors placed inside the source code.

![](/media/vulnerability-scanner/index.md-images/media/image04.jpg)

![](/media/vulnerability-scanner/index.md-images/media/image05.jpg)

**Fast, Accurate, Easy to Use**
-------------------------------

-   Multi-threaded, lightning fast crawler and scanner that can crawl
    hundreds of thousands of pages without interruptions.

-   Highest detection of WordPress vulnerabilities – scans WordPress
    installations for over 1200 known vulnerabilities in WordPress’
    core, themes and plugins.

-   An easy to use Login Sequence Recorder that allows the automatic
    crawling and scanning of complex password protected areas
    including multi-step, Single Sign-On (SSO) and
    OAuth-based websites.

-   Easily generate a wide variety of technical and compliance reports
    aimed towards developers and business owners alike.

