---
title: Highest SQL Injection and XSS Detection Rate
author: Arsen A. Gutsal
layout: text-and-images
---

**Highest SQL Injection and XSS Detection Rate**
================================================

Holistic and accurate vulnerability detection lies in the ability to
detect anything from the most obvious to the most obscure SQL Injection,
XSS and over 500 other types of web application vulnerabilities.
SOFTSKY is the industry leader in detecting the largest variety of SQL
Injection and XSS vulnerabilities, including Out-of-band SQL Injection
and DOM-based XSS.

SOFTSKY Vulnerability Scanner achieves top scores in SQLi, XSS and
hidden file detection benchmarks.

Source – [SecTools Addict
Benchmark](http://sectooladdict.blogspot.ro/2014/02/wavsep-web-application-scanner.html)

**In-depth SQL Injection and Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) Vulnerability Testing**
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SOFTSKY Vulnerability Scanner rigorously tests for hundreds of web
application vulnerabilities including SQL Injection and Cross-site
Scripting. SQL Injection is one of the oldest and most prevalent of
software bugs; it allows attackers to modify SQL queries in order to
gain access to data in the database. Cross-Site scripting attacks allow
attackers to execute malicious scripts inside your visitors’ browser;
possibly leading to impersonation of that user.

When it comes to Dynamic Application Security Testing (DAST), while the
number of tests a scanner can run is important, it is secondary to how
well it can crawl an application – If you can’t crawl it, you can’t scan
it! SOFTSKY Vulnerability Scanner’s DeepScan Technology has the ability
to crawl complex client-side Single Page Applications (SPAs),
guaranteeing the highest vulnerability detection rate even in
client-side vulnerabilities such as DOM-based XSS vulnerabilities.

**Advanced Automated DOM-based XSS Vulnerability Testing**
----------------------------------------------------------

DOM-based XSS is an advanced type of XSS attack which is made possible
when the web application’s client-side scripts write user provided data
to the Document Object Model (DOM). The data is subsequently read from
the DOM by the web application and outputted to the browser. If the data
is incorrectly handled, an attacker can inject a payload, which will be
stored as part of theDOM and executed when the data is read back from
the DOM.

DOM-based XSS is often a client-side attack, and the attacker’s payload
is never sent to the server. This makes it even more difficult to
detect. SOFTSKY Vulnerability Scanner can scan for a wide range of
advanced DOM-based XSS and also provide a stack-trace of the injected
payload as it moves inside of the browser’s DOM.

![](/media/vulnerability-scanner/sql-injection-xss-detection.md-images/media/image03.png)

**Detection of Blind XSS, XXE, SSRF, Host Header Attacks and Email Header Injection**
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Traditional methods of detecting vulnerabilities fall short when
attempting to detect second-order vulnerabilities; i.e. testing for
vulnerabilities that do not provide a response to a scanner during
testing. Detection of second-order vulnerabilities requires an
intermediary service; SOFTSKY Vulnerability Scanner, combined with it’s
built-in AcuMonitor Technology, makes automatic detection of such
vulnerabilities possible and transparent to the user running the scan.

AcuMonitor allows the detection of vulnerabilities such as Blind XSS,
XML External Entity Injection (XXE), Server Side Request Forgery (SSRF),
Host Header Attacks, Email Header Injection and Password Reset
Poisoning.

![](/media/vulnerability-scanner/sql-injection-xss-detection.md-images/media/image01.jpg)
nn