---
title: Lowest False Positives Guarantees Effective Web Application Security
author: Arsen A. Gutsal
layout: text-and-images
---

**Lowest False Positives Guarantees Effective Web Application Security**
========================================================================

SOFTSKY’s unique AcuSensor Technology enhances a regular dynamic scan
through an Interactive Application Security Testing (IAST) deployment of
sensors inside the source code. AcuSensor will then relay feedback to
the scanner during the source code’s execution. This combination of
black-box and white-box testing (commonly referred to as gray-box
testing) further enhances the scanner’s detection rate.

![](/media/vulnerability-scanner/web-application-security.md-images/media/image02.png)

SOFTSKY Vulnerability Scanner achieves top scores in SQLi, XSS and
hidden file detection benchmarks.

Source – [SecTools Addict
Benchmark](http://sectooladdict.blogspot.ro/2014/02/wavsep-web-application-scanner.html)

**Interactive Security Testing with AcuSensor**
-----------------------------------------------

Traditional web application security testing (black-box testing) will
not see how code behaves during execution and source code analysis will
not always understand what happens when code is in execution. AcuSensor
marries these two methodologies and is able to achieve a significantly
higher detection of vulnerabilities. Typically, SQL injection
vulnerabilities can only be found if database errors are reported, or
through ‘blind’ techniques. With AcuSensor, SQL Injection
vulnerabilities can be detected in all SQL queries; including INSERT
statements.

**Pinpoints Exact Location of Vulnerabilities**
-----------------------------------------------

AcuSensor technology can indicate the line of code where the
vulnerability lies and report additional debug information. This greatly
increases remediation efficiency and makes the developer’s task of
fixing the vulnerabilities easier.

**Back-end File Crawling**
--------------------------

AcuSensor can run a back-end crawl, presenting all files accessible
through the web server to the scanner; even if these files are not
linked through the front-end application. This ensures 100% coverage of
the application, and alerts users of any backdoor files that might have
been maliciously uploaded by an attacker.

**Lowest False Positive Rates**
-------------------------------

Detection of inexistent vulnerabilities are a nightmare to deal with.
False positives reduce confidence in the scanner and waste the time of
pen-testers and developers alike in trying to find and fix
vulnerabilities. SOFTSKY excels with the lowest false positive rate in
the industry, saving valuable time for your security and development
teams.

AcuSensor Technology can automatically verify vulnerabilities found
through black box scanning techniques by performing additional tests
during the execution of the application’s source code. This allows an
SOFTSKY scan to give a near to 0% false positive rate when AcuSensor is
used.

  |**Category**  | **Accuracy**|
  |:------------:|:-----------:|
  |SQL Injection | 100% / 0% FP|   
  |XSS(Reflected)| 100% / 0% FP|   

Source – [WAVSEP Web Application Scanner Benchmark
2014](http://sectooladdict.blogspot.ro/2014/02/wavsep-web-application-scanner.html)

![](/media/vulnerability-scanner/web-application-security.md-images/media/image03.png)[](http://sectooladdict.blogspot.ro/2014/02/wavsep-web-application-scanner.html)

**AcuSensor Detects Critical Vulnerabilities with 100% Accuracy**
-----------------------------------------------------------------

-   [SQL
    Injection](http://www.acunetix.com/vulnerabilities/web/sql-injection)

-   [Cross-site
    Scripting](http://www.acunetix.com/vulnerabilities/web/cross-site-scripting)

-   [Code
    Execution](http://www.acunetix.com/vulnerabilities/web/code-execution)

-   [CRLF
    Injection](http://www.acunetix.com/vulnerabilities/web/crlf-injection-http-response-splitting)

-   [Directory
    Traversal](http://www.acunetix.com/vulnerabilities/web/directory-traversal)

<!-- -->

-   [Arbitrary File
    Creation](http://www.acunetix.com/vulnerabilities/web/arbitrary-file-creation)

-   [Arbitrary File
    Deletion](http://www.acunetix.com/vulnerabilities/web/arbitrary-file-deletion)

-   [Email
    Injection](http://www.acunetix.com/vulnerabilities/web/email-injection)

-   [File
    Upload](http://www.acunetix.com/vulnerabilities/web/file-upload)

-   [File
    Inclusion](http://www.acunetix.com/vulnerabilities/web/file-inclusion)

<!-- -->

-   [File
    Tampering](http://www.acunetix.com/vulnerabilities/web/file-tampering)

-   [PHP Code
    Injection](http://www.acunetix.com/vulnerabilities/web/php-code-injection)

-   [PHP SuperGlobals
    Overwrite](http://www.acunetix.com/vulnerabilities/web/php-super-globals-overwrite)

-   [](http://www.acunetix.com/vulnerabilities/web/php-super-globals-overwrite)


